The tiny landlocked country of Andorra, that is wedged in between Spain and France. Most of the time in Andorra, you will be placed on roads in the bottom of valleys with mountains rising up around you. The mountains are normally a mixture of trees and rocks. Andorran buildings are normally multi-storey and look rather nice. Often they are made of stones compressed together. Andorran license plates are less elongated than standard European plates and lack the European blue vertical stripe. Instead, they have an orange blob on their left. Standard European plates are also often found in Andorra. Andorran locations are mainly at the bottom of a valley with mountains rising up around you. The mountains are a blend of trees and rocks. The roads look well-maintained. Buildings in Andorra are typically multi-storey, affluent looking and often made of stones compressed together. Andorran license plates are less elongated than typical European plates. They also lack the blue vertical stripe of standard European plates. The left side of Andorran plates feature an orange blotch. It should be noted that some European plates venture into Andorra. These tall and distinctively coloured snow marker poles line many roads in Andorra. 

Andorran licence plates have an orange dot on the left side and can be regularly found throughout the country.

Within Europe, this plate is unique to Andorra.

Andorra has a lot of these stone buildings. They can be seen almost everywhere in the country.

These buildings can also be found close to Andorra, in the French and Spanish Pyrenees.

Andorran snow poles are made out of wood and can have a variety of colours on them.

Catalan is the main language in Andorra. It is a Romance language that is closely related to Spanish and French.

The Catalan language is also used in eastern Spain: in Catalonia, the Valencian community and the Balearic islands.

The Catalan word for street is “carrer”.

These kilometre markers with CG and CS road numbers are found in Andorra.

Similar kilometre marker designs can be found in Spain.

Andorra uses yellow reflectors on its guardrails.

Within Europe, yellow reflectors are only found in Andorra, Spain and Belgium. For a good overview of European guardrails, see this infographic.

The Andorran bollard has an orange reflector and can be occasionally found on the main highways.

This bollard can also be found in Spain.

Yellow and turquoise-green traffic cones are used in the whole country.

Pedestrian signs have 8 stripes.

Spain is the only other European country that has pedestrian signs with 8 stripes.

Other countries have snow trekkers as well, but Andorra has the highest amount for its size.

Andorra la Vella is a capital city surrounded by high mountains, making it recognisable.

It is the highest European capital with an altitude of 1023 metres.

In the capital Andorra la Vella you can often see the Caldea tower and the sky wheel.

Pas de la Casa, a touristy city in eastern Andorra, can be easily recognized by the plethora of shops and hotels. As it is located at an altitude of 2080 metres, there are no trees visible on the mountains surrounding it.