I’ve previously mentioned that the state of New South Wales that houses Sydney has a portion of cars with yellow license plates contrasting the white license plates across the rest of Australia. The state of South Australia is essentially the only place in the world with concrete utility poles (as well as Darwin)- these hold up the power lines and there are almost 1 million of them in the state hence these utility poles indicate the area as almost certainly being South Australia. Australian house numbers appear on the GeoGuessr map which makes pinpointing easier. If you zoom in on the map, Australian house numbers appear. This can make pinpointing in Australian cities/towns easier. Australian roads mainly have all white road lines. Australia stands out thanks to Eucalyptus trees. They are typically tall with white bark. About 1/4 cars in the state of New South Wales in Australia have yellow license plates. If a car has yellow plates they will appear on both the front and rear. License plates in the Northern Territory generally have a reddish tinge that is just visible if you look carefully. License plates in the state of Victoria most commonly have a subtle yet visible black triangle pointing downwards situated in the top-middle of the plate. Under the right circumstances, Western Australian license plates are recognisable. They feature a narrow, horizontal blue band running across the top of the plate. Sometimes it will be challenging to see this blue strip. Stobie poles are the utility poles used in the state of South Australia. These poles aren’t used outside of this state. The poles consist of steel on both sides and concrete in the centre. The Northern Territory uses these metal utility poles with holes in them. Outside of South Australia and the Northern Territory, the rest of Australia typically uses wooden utility poles that are cylindrical. There are often extras on these poles that vary from pole to pole such as the horizontal, crucifix bar. Approximately 50% of utility poles in Tasmania have these olive coloured metal wrappings around the pole, generally around 2 metres above the ground. These wrappings are often hard to see unless you zoom in as they are a similar colour to the utility pole. These olive colouered wrappings aren’t seen outside of Tasmania. New Zealand has a silver coloured metal wrapping. In the Greater Brisbane area- generally between the Sunshine Coast and the Gold Coast, you will often see utility poles with a sloppily painted black section. If you see these coils on the ends of the top of a pole, you are in the state of Victoria. The coil doesn’t always appear on the vertical pole like in the above image. These coil poles aren’t everywhere in Victoria however if you see them, you know you are in Victoria. In Canberra, you will often see utility poles with a short, crucifix-style horizontal bar. ‘C’ roads in Australia are fairly common sights and are rather useful. They consist of the letter ‘C’ preceding a road number. C roads are found in Tasmania and Victoria (the southern mainland state of Australia, just across the sea from Tasmania). They can also technically be found in the Northern Territory but this is rare. Essentially C road= Tasmania or Victoria. ‘C’ roads are found in the Australian states of Tasmania and Victoria. Australia typically has white street signs. Australia normally has white coloured street signs. The greenest area and probably only green vegetation area of the country (depending on the season and droughts) is in the south east corner. Tasmania also tends to be rather lush and can look similar to New Zealand. Victoria also regularly has green rolling hills. In general, Australia is very flat. If you see rolling hills, they you are most likely in Tasmania or Victoria. The Northern territory (the part of Australia in the upper middle) abides by a maximum speed limit of 130m/h vs 110km/h for the rest of Australia. Finding a 130km/h sign ensures that you are in this part of Australia. The two types of typical Australian reflector posts can be seen below. Note that the red rectangle reflector posts also commonly occur in Turkey and Romania. The first type of bollard in Australia. The second type of Australian bollard features a red rectangle. Rural bollards in the state of Western Australia sometimes have these brown/gray segments on their base. Distinguishing between the eastern states and Western Australia can be problematic in Australia and a low score can result if you pick the opposite part of the country. There are some things I look for if I’m playing a no moving round and have to decide where to guess in Australia. Firstly, the trees in Western Australia tend to be lower and with a bushier foliage than the rest of Australia. The trees in the eastern states are normally higher and more sprawling. Another aspect to consider is the colour of the dirt. Although the below photos don’t support this, if the soil has a more reddish colour then you are more likely to be in Western Australia as opposed to an eastern state. The trees in Western Australia are normally lower and bushier as seen above. The trees in the eastern states of Australia are normally taller and more sprawling as seen above. A white or light coloured soil is typically found alongside the road in the southern half of South Australia. Soil in Western Australia tends to have more of a redder colour than the remainder of Australia. As you travel further north in Australia, the soil colour gradually changes. By the time you reach the latitude of Alice Springs, the soil is close to orange in colour. The flora in this part of the country largely consists of low lying shrubs. The northern part of Australia tends to have almost reddish dirt in combination with quite green and lush flora. Trees often have black coloured bark in the northern part of Australia, especially around Darwin. The Stuart Highway, which is the road that runs north-south through Australia, is the main section of coverage in the centre of Australia. The Stuart Highway has generation 4 coverage from Adelaide to Alice Springs (meaning you should see the blue car and as depicted by the blue line above). North of Alice Springs is all generation 1 and 3. Curbs in the city of Perth tend to have a gradual decline to the ground (or have a very low drop- around 3cm). This contrasts standard curbs across the other major Australian cities which have curbs that slant at 90 degrees and drop straight down for about 13cm. Curbs in the major Australian cities other than Perth tend to have curbs that drop straight down to the road (around 13cm straight down)- these are pictured. Curbs in Perth generally have a gradual decline or are very low (around 3cm). Another way to identify Western Australia is via its yellow coloured poles which hold up signs. One of the best methods to identify Western Australia is via its yellow poles which hold up many types of signs. Silver poles tend to hold up signs across the remainder of Australia. Australian speed limit signs appear on a white rectangle. This contrasts New Zealand speed limit signs which appear as a circular cut-out. South Australian and Western Australian speed limit signs (and often other signs) appear on rectangular prism shaped poles with holes running up them. The Western Australian poles are yellow, as pictured above this picture. In contrast to Western Australian and South Australian speed limit sign poles being rectangular prisms and having holes running down them, speed limit signs elsewhere in Australia are mounted on cylindrical poles without holes. Australian ‘GIVE WAY’ signs are written in black writing. In contrast, New Zealand ‘GIVE WAY’ signs are written in red writing. Additionally, New Zealand has a triangle printed on the road approaching ‘GIVE WAY’ signs whilst Australian roads are bare. Palm trees in Australia are commonly found in the northern half of the country and near the coast. Palm trees in Australia are more commonly found along the coast and in the northern half of the country. Bungalow style houses are particularly common in the Australian suburbs. Houses in the state of Queensland are most commonly made of horizontal pieces of wood. They are also often elevated off the ground (not necessarily as high as the house pictured).

Gum trees (eucalyptus) are by far the most common type of tree in Australia. Their bark is typically light-coloured, with puffy leaves. 

Their look may vary significantly, depending on your location within the country. More details can be found in the region-guessing section.

Australian bollards are white, with a red reflector on the front, and a grey reflector on the back.

New Zealand uses a bollard where the red reflector wraps around the back, meaning the reflector goes from end to end while the Australian one stops in the middle.

Australia drives on the left.

A handful of other countries also drive on the left. See this infographic for more information.

Australia uses almost exclusively white road lines, with a few rare exceptions in alpine regions such as Mount Kosciuszko and Mount Hotham.

If you are considering guessing in Australia, but see yellow outside lines or a yellow middle line, you will probably be in South Africa or New Zealand respectively. Note that New Zealand can have all white road lines as well.

Outside lines in Australia sometimes feature rumble strips that look like small white stripes perpendicular to the road line.

Northern Territory roads very rarely have rumble strips. 

In addition, you can find similar rumble strips in New Zealand.

Give-way signs in Australia have a white border and black text.

New Zealand’s give-way signs use red, instead of black, text. Give-way signs are very rarely seen in South Africa.

Australia uses white on black and black on yellow chevrons.

Green signs with white arrows on either side can be seen at intersections which show nearby towns or cities. A number indicating the number of kilometres away the town can sometimes be seen.

Australian speed limit signs have black text in a red circle on a large white rectangle.

New Zealand speed limit signs normally do not have the white rectangular background.

Subdivisions:

Australia Has 8 states which are as follows, New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia, Northern Territory, and Australian Capital Territory.

Unique Vehicles:

Each region in Australia will have a unique looking Mass Transit Bus, as well as a unique bus stop. Learning some basic clues can help you zone in on a particular region in Australia.

Buses in New South Wales will generally have dark blue at the bottom, and may also have light blue designs painted above them.

The Queensland buses have the same blue design at the bottom of the NSW ones, but they also have yellow at the front and rear.

Most buses in Victoria have this orange-triangle design all around them. You will also find green triangular designs on the trams.

South Australian buses come in several designs of red, blue and yellow. However, they will always have the “Adelaide Metro” logo on them, and these logos are found on the trains and trams also.

Western Australian buses have a grey design with green stripes, and also the word “Transperth” written on them.

There are several bus designs in the Northern Territory, but many seem to have this orange design at the bottom, especially closer / in Darwin.

Tasmania has several bus companies, but most of them have the yellow at the front. There are several bus stop designs.

Finally, the Australian Capital Territory has a lot of bus designs. They can have blue, green or yellow on them.

Bollard:

The most common Bollard is flat, and white apart from a red rectangle towards the top.

There are variations on these but they all maintain the color theme.

Road Lines:

Australia normally uses all white lines. You can find rare instances of all yellow lines, typically in the mountains of New South Wales. You can see an example of this below.

Australia also will use the color yellow to inform it’s licensed drivers that you cannot park. While not a helpful tip, it can help with the confusion you may experience while seeing the yellow lines in Australia.

You can occasionally find these rumble strips in desolate areas. You tend to be very far away from any civilization.

Road Signs:

Australia uses yellow diamond-shaped warning signs often featuring the local fauna.

   Australia has a wide range of signs, most look similar to signs you could find in the USA or Canada.

“Shire” essentially means County. You can find these signs near all “Shire” borders, with some indicating a population or showing a crest of arms.

You can occasionally find these wild fire signs. They will sometimes indicate the area you are on up top, and Code Red can sometimes be Catastrophic. However, they share a very similar design and can be found on the outskirts of most large towns.

Australia typically uses a green sign with a blue shield as their state road symbol. Its important to note that New Zealand uses a RED shield while the USA has their typical Black and White / Red and Blue shields.
Roads are often alphanumeric or on blue shields. The national highways begin with the letter A and a number, most state highways begin with B and a number (although Queensland and Western Australia use blue shields), and some will use C.

You can even use a few quick tips for State-Specific meta’s.

Some Western Australia road signs will be on yellow poles.

Some bollards in Western Australia will be painted brown at the bottom.

Western Australia, New South Wales, Queensland, Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory have white borders around their traffic lights, while Victoria, South Australia and the Northern Territory do not.

No Stopping sings in New South Wales are red, unlike anywhere else in the country.

Chevrons seem a bit rare. You can find the Black and White ones occasionally near traffic circles. As for the Yellow and Black ones, these are located in Forested hilly areas, and are quite hard to find.

Like other countries in the world, you can find the City name as well as their logo on most trash bins located around. As these are often smaller, its often difficult to make out the name or logo. Shown here is the City of Hobart on Tasmania.

Electricity poles:

Australia uses wooden poles for most things, but an occasional metal one may pop up.
There are state specific poles, with some being a bit more helpful than others.

This is a timber pole. You’ll find them in Western Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, New South Wales, and Queensland. They’re often green, but they can be any color.

You can often find this black square with numbers in it. Each number is designed to a unique pole to make utility work easier. What is nice about this square is that it can only be found in Queensland.

You can find these metal poles with holes in the Northern Territory and the northern parts of Western Australia.

Finally, you can find the “Stobie” pole in South Australia. A Stobie pole is two metal beams joined by tie bolts and held apart by a slab of concrete. It often has artwork towards the bottom and can be used as bus stops if painted Yellow.

License plates:

All plates are white except for New south wales where they are yellow.

Both New South Wales and Victoria use lots of thin license plates, and these can come in white and black for both states.

Queensland used to have a white plate with green text, however this was discontinued in 2001.

Western Australia used to use yellow license plates similar to those of NSW, but not since 1997. Very few farm vehicles and old cars will still have them in the google coverage.
Like most countries, you can often customize the license plate on your car. While its not worth showing all variations, its important to note that you may come across these on your travels.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Australia has a wide variety of landscapes, ranging from desert in the center, grasslands in the south, and tropics in the north.

Topography:

The continent of Australia is divided into four general topographic regions: (1) a low, sandy eastern coastal plain; (2) the eastern highlands, ranging from 300 to more than 2,100 m (1,000–7,000 ft) in altitude and extending from Cape York Peninsula in northern Queensland southward to Tasmania; (3) the central plains, consisting largely of a north-south series of drainage basins, including the Great Artesian Basin, which underlies about 1,751,480 sq km (676,250 sq mi) of territory and is the most extensive area of internal drainage in the world; and (4) the western plateau, covered with great deserts and “bigger plains” (regularly spaced sand ridges and rocky wastes), rising 300 to 600 m (1,000–2,000 ft) high and constituting most of the western half of the continent.
Australian mountains have eroded over recent geological periods, and only about 6% of the continent is above 600 m (2,000 ft); the average elevation is less than 300 m (1,000 ft). The highest point is Mt. Kosciusko, 2,228 m (7,310 ft), in the Australian Alps of the southeastern corner of New South Wales; the lowest point is Lake Eyre in South Australia, 15 m (49 ft) below sea level. In 1983, grains of rock from Western Australia were dated at 4.1–4.2 billion years old, making them the oldest ever found on earth.

Specific tree:

Australia has a wide variety of unique Flora/Fauna to be found there, here are just 3 examples out of hundreds: Eucalyptus, Paperbark, Strangler Fig.

Architecture:

Most large cities in Australia do not have massive skyscrapers. There are some exceptions like Sydney Melbourne and Brisbane, but it looks like most cities have shorter buildings.
There is also a clear western influence on the buildings, with a lot of English architecture common throughout the country.

