Bhutan is noticeable for being mountainous. There is virtually no stretch of Bhutanese land or road that is flat. They also have regularly occurring small white stone/brick/non-Newtonian substances on the sides of some of their roads. These white painted slabs often feature a yellow rectangle containing numbers and letters. Bhutan also has distinctive red license plates. The entire country of Bhutan is mountainous and has a distinctive look. If you see tall mountains, mainly covered in trees, then there is a good chance you are in Bhutan. Bhutan has red license plates which stand out. If you pan down in Bhutan, you should see the ghostly, white car with the very end of the car being more opaque. The sides of many Bhutanese roads are skirted with stone makers painted white with yellow signs on them. These white stone markers come in various shapes and sizes. You will regularly see a long row of these stone slabs in Bhutan. Sometimes you will see more elongated road side markers made from stone slabs. These white and yellow stone markers indicate how far away the nearest village, town or city is in Bhutan. In this example, the village of Dewathang is 1km away. The other side of the stone also has information about how far away the nearest village is for those travelling in the opposite direction. Bhutanese road signs are often held aloft by black and white striped poles. Bhutanese houses and apartments can be quite elaborate looking. They often feature flat roofs that extend beyond the walls, white walls, arch windows and detailed wooden elements. This is another style of Bhutanese house that has many of the same elements as the previous house including arch shaped windows, wooden trimmings and detailed art separating the two floors. Some Bhutanese houses are less elaborate than these two examples and appear quite basic, like the house in the first image of this ‘Bhutan’ section, dwarfed by the landscape. 

Licence plates in Bhutan are almost always red and can easily be seen on vehicles.

Within Asia, Bhutan is the only country that uses full red licence plates.

Coverage in Bhutan was taken by a grey Google car without an antenna.

Bhutan commonly uses these stone blocks as safety barriers on winding rural roads. These blocks are very common and often one of the best ways to recognize rural Bhutan rounds.

Guardrails, on the other hand, are rare.

The traditional Bhutanese architecture is very distinct. Most of the houses have tin roofs and wooden painted frames, which give them a unique look.

Dzongkha is an official language in Bhutan and has unique-looking letters.

Bhutan is a mountainous country and most of the coverage is located on its main mountain roads.

In the south are flat areas where you cannot see any mountains.

Prayer flags near the road are typically seen in Bhutan.

Thin metal poles are occasionally found in Bhutan. They are often painted black at the bottom.

These are the Bhutanese road markers, notice the yellow top and the white bottom.

If you are on rural roads and would like to find out where you are, these markers are the best clue to narrow down the exact location.

On national highways, the road number is found on the top of the marker, but is not labelled on the map. However, it can still be used to identify the road using this table.

These signs are frequently found in the cities of Bhutan and are often coloured red or blue.

As seen here, they will typically have the town name you are in written on them.

Taxis in Bhutan have yellow licence plates and yellow roofs.

Signposts in Bhutan frequently have black-and-white stripes.

Within Asia, these posts are also found in Sri Lanka, Malaysia and Bangladesh. Make sure to check other clues before guessing.