Brazilian Street View coverage is centred around the east and south of the country. Very little of the western part of the country, where the Amazon Rainforest is positioned, is covered. Brazil is a large country that correspondingly can have a very diverse landscape. Its notable features include its varying types of flora and often reddish, clay like soil. The areas containing this distinctly reddish soil are mainly in the north of the country and regions around Goias. The north-east of Brazil tends to have a lighter coloured soil. The more densely rain-forested region of Brazil is to the west of the country as well as near Rio de Janeiro. The southern part of the country is quite similar to Argentina and features people with fairer complexions. This part of Brazil also more commonly has large, grass fields. Wide satellite dishes in South America are typically Brazilian. The petrol/gas stations in Brazil are often the company known as ‘Petrobras’ and they have a green, orange and white sign. Brazil has a few unique features including its signs. The back of Brazilian signs are coloured black. Brazilian utility poles most commonly have large indents, are narrower near the top and contain a number of vertically aligned small, drilled holes. The Street View car in Brazil should either be blue or white. This white car may have a stubby aerial or no aerial at all. One of the easiest ways to identify Brazil is via language. From the GeoGuessr relevant countries, Brazil is the only place other than Portugal and Macau where Portuguese is spoken. This can make identifying Brazil from the rest of South America easy as Spanish is spoken across the rest of the GeoGuessr relevant South America. The Brazilian highway numbering system is explained in detail in the ‘highway numbering systems’ section of this article. The Brazilian landscape is exceptionally varied due to the sheer size of the country. Almost the entire country is flat (with gentle rises) which contrasts many other South American countries. Parts of Brazil, especially the northern regions and central states such as Goias, can have a reddish soil colour. Sometimes you will get an inkling that you are in Brazil thanks to the reddish soil next to the road. The north-eastern parts of Brazil can have a lighter soil colour with little flora. The north-eastern parts of Brazil are very dry. I often notice these embankments on either side of the road in Brazil. Cars in Brazil have rather large license plates. These plates are white and somewhat resemble the size of European license plate. Brazilian plates contrast the other Latin American countries which tend to have small license plates. Argentina occasionally has long plates however these have an upper blue section. The major petrol/gas station in Brazil has this logo. If you spot a large satellite dish in South America then there is a good chance you are in Brazil. Satellite dishes are doubly useful as they face towards the equator. This can be useful for determining how far north or south you are in the enormity of Brazil. Brazilian signs have black on their backs. Peru can also have a dark rear on their signs however it isn’t as black as the rear of Brazilian signs Brazil has green and blue directional signs, both with white lettering. Brazilian utility poles can comes in a range of styles. The most common type is wider at the base and narrower at the top. They tend to also have indents in them. They look similar to Chilean poles however Chilean utility poles have one long indent whilst Brazil typically has 3 indented sections. If you look closely at most types of Brazilian utility poles, you should see small holes in a vertical formation that look like they have been drilled into the pole. Brazilian houses come in wide range of styles. They are made from various materials, can have virtually every style of roof and can come in a range of colours. The Brazilian state of Acre (in the far west) stands out thanks to its houses typically being wooden and on short stilts. A Brazilian highway sign. The intricacies of the Brazilian road system are explained in depth in the ‘Highway Numbering Systems’ section near the top of this article. In Brazil, trucks, buses and taxis have distinctive red license plates. This can be helpful for recognising the country, especially on long, remote roads where trucks frequently travel. There are a few easy ways to distinguish Portuguese from Spanish. Portuguese has the ‘Ç’ symbol whilst Spanish doesn’t. This is a regularly occurring symbol in Portuguese so many signs will house it. Another tell is that many words in Portuguese end in ‘ção’. Finally, Portuguese has the symbol ã which is an ‘a’ with a squiggle on its top (this is different from an accent). If there is one country in the world that you should know at least the first digits of the area codes, then it is Brazil. The list of Brazilian area codes for phone numbers can be useful as many businesses and signs contain these. A full list can be found here. For those not keen to memorise all this info, I’ll condense it here: States around Sao Paulo= teens, Near Rio de Janeiro= 20s, south of Brasilia= 30s, south west of Sao Paulo=40s, the very south of Brazil=50s, the central and western regions=60s, around the state of Bahia=70s, the north east corner of the country=80s, and the northern and north western part of Brazil=90s. A map indicating the phone area codes in Brazil. Often advertisements and shop signs feature a phone number and this prefix can be matched with the above map to determine locations in Brazil. Phone numbers that begin with ‘99’ in Brazil are mobile numbers. A large portion of the time, the two-digit Brazilian area codes appear in brackets before the phone number. Be warned though- if a phone number in Brazil has just 8-digits, it doesn’t contain the area code. Area codes are the best and easiest way to narrow down your region in Brazil. 

Licence plates in Brazil were white until 2018. Now, a white plate with a blue stripe on top is used. Red is still used for commercial vehicles.

Portuguese is spoken in Brazil, as opposed to most Latin American countries which speak Spanish. Compared to Spanish, some essential differences are that Portuguese uses -ão rather than -ón, -ch instead of -ll and -nh instead of -ñ.

Soil in most of Brazil is distinctly red. It can range from a light pink around Mato Grosso to a deep maroon near the Paraná river. The soil is usually not red in the North East, or in the majority of Rio Grande do Sul, however.

The nearby Argentine province of Misiones has deep red soil, as well a handful of other countries and regions around the world.

The most common poles in Brazil have some resemblance to a ladder in the bottom portion. They are rectangular, have long segments running through the bottom, and small holes near the top.

Most Brazilian road signs have the backs painted black.

Blue road markers with the road number and kilometre can be seen on the sides of roads.

Brazil uses yellow on black chevrons, as opposed to most of South America, which use black on yellow chevrons.

Roads in Brazil will usually feature double yellow middle lines, with white outer lines. Roads can occasionally have a single dashed yellow line.

There are frequently white painted kerbs on Brazilian roads.

Many houses throughout Brazil have orange tiled roofs.

It is fairly common to see transparent satellite dishes, which within Latin America is generally unique to Brazil.

Blue Fortlev water tanks are often seen on Brazilian roofs.

Bollard:

There are not any bollards, however you will find these signs along most of the larger roads. You will be able to see which region the road is located in, as well as which road you are listed on.
This image shows PR, which stands for the State of Parana, 239 which indicated Parana road 239, and the KM marker 58.

You can see the two letter codes if you zoom out in the Geoguessr map.
The only two letter code that won’t help will be BR. That’s because it indicates a country road, one that goes through multiple states.
There are also these useless signs of the same type which only serve as kilometre markers and don’t show the road number:

Road Lines:

Brazil, like most of the Western Hemisphere, uses a yellow divider and white shoulder lines.

Road Signs:

The green signs seem to point to towns and villages.

The blue signs seem to point to administrative regions, politicians, or other important information about the region or town. You’ll find the highway signs that point to a hotel or a restaurant in blue as well.

There are also white signs that just carry general information on them. They wont tell you anything about towns, but you will be able to tell that the language is Portuguese.
Warning signs in Brazil have the American yellow diamond-shaped style:

The stop signs in Brazil say PARE, just like in all other South American countries:

The roadside turn warning arrows are either yellow with a black background or black with a yellow background:

Road signs on Brazilian highways can often be magnified and bigger than the usual signs:

However, this is not the case in cities and towns.
These overhanging signs with bent poles are very common in Brazil. They point the way either to the nearest cities and roads, or parts of cities if found in a city:

The backs of all types of official road signs in Brazil are black:

The road sign poles can be black, white, brown or metallic:

Road Numbering System:

In addition to the state roads discussed above, there are also national roads, which have a prefix BR-###. These seemingly don’t follow any road numbering patterns for grouping the numbers together, but do follow some other patterns (see below). They can easily be found when zoomed out on the map, in contrast to the state roads for which you need to zoom in a lot. The most notable of these national roads must be the BR-101 which follows the east coast of the country in its full length from north to south.


Electricity poles:

Common Brazilian electricity poles have these slim indentations or steps, and sometimes can even have circular holes inside them:

Right click on the image, “View Image” for higher resolution.

License plates:

Brazil has a light grey plate that appears white when blurred.

However, from 2019 on, they changed the design to include this blue bar on the top (the Mercosul plate):

The service vehicle plates (buses, taxis, etc) in Brazil are red.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Brazil is very easy to recognize due to their reddish-orange soil.
The northeastern part of Brazil can be very dry and have a very light orange soil:

Specific Plants:

The Paraná pine is a very distinctive-looking tree which grows mostly in the Brazilian states of Paraná and Santa Catarina, but can also be found in Rio Grande do Sul and São Paulo, and thus is very useful for pinpointing your location within the country:

The Brazilian state of Espírito Santo and the neighbouring mountainous regions can have a lot of these trees planted by the side of the road as artificial forests:

These forests can be found in other parts of Brazil too.
The area around Belém features oil palm plantations:

Architecture:

Architecture in Brazil can most basically be split into three areas. The northeast, south, and west. Understand that this is a broad overview and sometimes you may find these types of architecture in the other regions of the country too.

Western Brazil
Here, a lot of the houses are made out of wood, and can sometimes be raised on stilts. Many of the roofs are metal sheets. There are also a lot red brick houses and some pastel colored houses.

Northeast Brazil
Houses typical of this area have white walls and orange/red tiled roofs which are often of a lower quality. There are some pastel colored houses with poor quality roofs as well, and occasionally some red brick buildings.

Southern Brazil
Southern Brazil has two main house styles. The first style is white or pastel concrete walls with red or cream colored tiled roofs of a higher quality/well-kept. These are common especially in the region between Sao Paulo state and Rio Grande do Sul state. The second style has solid colored concrete walls (usually blue or green) with dark brown tiled roofs.

The common TV satellite dishes in Brazil are transparent, which can happen in Indonesia and Malaysia too:

