Bangladesh can be broken into the urban and rural categories. Urban Bangladesh is one of the most densely populated areas in the world. There are often large numbers of people standing on the streets in Bangladesh, vehicles in a traffic jam and numerous rickshaws. Urban Bangladesh also features many shops crammed together along the sides of the roads with signs galore. As rural Bangladeshi Street View coverage mainly includes the more major roads connecting large Bangladeshi cities, the rural streets can still be crowded with vehicles. Rural Bangladesh stands out as the road is generally straight and almost always elevated above the land on both side of the road. There are typically trees lining the sides of the road and grassland beyond. There are often puddles of water on the low-lying grass flanking the road. The colours, red and white appear regularly in Bangladesh, on bollards, fences separating the road from water sources and on some curbs. The Bangladesh language of Bangala resembles Hindi but unlike Hindi, it regularly has triangles that point to the left. Bangladesh is one of the hardest countries in the world to pinpoint in, largely due to the lack of English signs. Bangladesh has a high population density and this is reflected with the streets often teeming with people. There are often buildings and shops lining the sides of the road with signs galore. The more rural parts of Bangladesh tend to have land on both sides of the road that is lower than the road itself. Trees also commonly line the road in rural Bangladeshi areas. Green grass is common on both sides of the road as are puddles and other forms of water. Rickshaws featuring a bike at the front and two wheels at the back are common across other parts of Asia but they are especially common in Bangladesh. Bangladeshi vehicles drive on the left. Most of the time, for civilian vehicles, Bangladeshi license plates are white for front and rear plates. Rickshaws in Bangladesh tend to have either green or white license plates. Bangladeshi bollards look like chimneys and are painted in alternating red and white sections. Sometimes the bollards are shorter than this image and thus have less red and white sections. As well as red and white bollards, Bangladeshi fences near water also feature these colours. Continuing Bangladesh’s fixation with red and white, sometimes the curbs are also painted these colours. The most common road markings in Bangladesh involve white, continuous edge lines and a white, dashed, centre line. The Bangala written language that is widespread across Bangladesh reminds me of musical notes written beneath a horizontal line that runs on top. It is distinct from Hindi as it often has triangles that point to the left. 

Bangladeshi licence plates are either white, black or turquoise.

The turquoise and black licence plate can only be found in Bangladesh.

The Bengali language can easily be recognized by its horizontal lines.

Bengali is an official language of Bangladesh and India.

The classic white car is the only car that is not unique to Bangladesh. Make sure to not mix up the striped white with the Cambodian car, since they look similar.

Rickshaws are frequently found all around Bangladesh, especially the green auto rickshaws.

They are found in other Asian countries as well.

Signposts in Bangladesh often have black-and-white stripes.

Within Asia, these posts are also found in Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Malaysia. Make sure to check other clues before guessing.

Bodies of water and agricultural fields can be often seen beside the streets of Bangladesh.

Streets in Bangladesh are often lined by trees, which sometimes have white paint on the bottom of their trunks.

Bangladesh uses red-and-white concrete bollards throughout the whole country.

They can also be found in a square form instead of a circular form.

Tin roofs are commonly found in Bangladesh.

Due to the humid climate, many countries in South and Southeast Asia use tin roofs.

Bollard:

Bangladeshi bollards are red/white striped and usually made of concrete or metal.

Road Signs:

Most bangladeshi signs are in Bengali, however in urban areas you can sometimes find English.

Many signs use black and white poles too, however this is not always the case.

Electricity poles:

Bangladeshi poles are made of wood.

License plates:

Bangladesh uses black plates however you can sometimes spot a few white ones.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Due to its location and featuring many tributaries Bangladesh is a very wet looking country and very green, it is also very flat.

General look:

Urban.

Rural.

Common vehicles:

Bangladesh has a few very common vehicles rarely seen in other countries including;
Trikes.

Tuk-tuks, often green.

These variant Tuk-tuks with elongated rears.

Lorries often vibrantly painted.

Double decker buses.

