The country is rich. It has well maintained everything from trees and hedges to roads. The cars are expensive and drive on the left. The houses are expensive and typically double story. Most Singaporean roads have the distinctive black and white striped curbs. Nowhere else in the world uses these curbs in such abundance as Singapore where they are everywhere you look. In addition, everything in Singapore looks remarkably clean and smooth. There is a lot of greenery around Singapore considering how densely populated and urban it is. There are a number of different license plates used in Singapore. Some of these plates are completely black, others have black sections and other vehicles have yellow rear plates and white front plates. Singapore uses distinctive green signs with white lettering for road names and directions. They also use standard, European warning signs however the actual signs themselves are white and square-shaped with the red-outlined triangle printed on the square sign. Pinpointing in Singapore can be made easier by determining where you are relative to the CBD (by looking for the tallest buildings and orientation yourself) or by finding major road names on the green directional signs. Singapore is a rich looking country that has high rise buildings, new looking roads, neatly maintained trees and bushes and fairly expensive cars. Despite being urban, the country is very green and lush. These black and white colours line many of the streets of Singapore. Cars drive on the left in Singapore. Singapore has a range of license plates. Some plates are completely black. Some are almost square-shaped with black sections. Some vehicles in Singapore have yellow rear plates and white front plates. Houses in Singapore tend to be double story and very affluent. Some Singaporean traffic lights arch over the road with the lights in a horizontal orientation. Also shown in this image are the Singaporean street lights which similarly hang over the road. Often in Singapore you will see concrete pillars holding up a large, elevated, cement pathway. This is Singapore’s Mass Rapid Transit. It is essentially an expensive transport system that serves the Singaporean public. Singapore has these aesthetically pleasing street signs (on the left of the image) and larger, green directional signs (on the right of the image). Singaporean warning signs look like standard European signs however the shape of the actual white sign is square, not triangular. This is unique in the world. Singaporean road lines come in a range of styles. It is common to have double yellow, continuous road lines on the very edges of the road. Some highway names have three letters such as TPE, SLE and CTE.  Secondly, other highways in Singapore are commonly named after the district they are located in. Upper Changi Road East is located in Changi]. Singapore has four official languages. These are: English, Chinese, Malay and Tamil. Sometimes all four of these languages appear on signs. English is the most used written language in Singapore. 

Singapore is a highly developed city-state, characterised by an overall cleanliness and orderliness.

Main roads are often divided, and commonly feature black-and-white curbs and double yellow outside lines. You will often see tall apartment blocks nearby.

All street name signs in Singapore follow unique format. They are green, with rounded edges and a distinct white font.

Most Singaporean licence plates are black, with white text. Occasionally, you will be able to see the British style white-and-yellow plates and very rarely red plates.

Neighbouring Malaysia and Indonesia also use black plates with white text. However, the letters will usually be divided into two or three sections - this is not the case for Singaporean plates.

Directional signs are also green, with white letters and English writing.

Expressways each have a three-letter code (e.g. TPE).

Road signs in Singapore are unique in that they are always set on a square white background.

Road signs in almost all other countries will not have this square background.

Rain trees are seen all around Singapore, and are often planted along main roads.

Warnings are often written on the road in large letters, such as the famous “HUMP AHEAD”.

Moreover, all bus stops are protected by concrete bollards with unique black-and-yellow warning bands.

Similar, but not quite identical designs are found in some Malaysian cities.

In addition to the concrete bollards on bus stops, Singapore sometimes has a unique and yellow bus-leaving box with an arrow on the street.

Almost all Singaporean traffic lights follow this design and are supported by a curved sheet of metal containing several holes.
