The only coverage in Belarus, apart from spills, is a single walking trekker in the historic centre of Minsk.

Instead of learning a lot of country-specific clues, it is more practical to simply memorise what the trekker looks like.

You can recognise trekkers by the fact that the camera feels a bit lower than the usual Google car. In Belarus’ case, the trekker is also mostly on pedestrian-only roads.

The border spills will be discussed in a separate upcoming Plonk It guide to spillover countries.

The Minsk trekker features a historic part of the city, with well-maintained classical European architecture. Many buildings have white or pastel coloured walls. Most of the roads you see are pedestrian-only.

The Holy Spirit Cathedral features prominently in the coverage. Its two towers can often be seen from far away.

The pavement which the trekker walks on in Minsk is mostly grey rectangular tiles. On a small part, there are pink-ish tiles in a specific pattern.

Signs will be in Belarusian or Russian. Both languages use the same Cyrillic alphabet.

The Minsk centre street signs are sea-green, and can be seen almost everywhere.

If you are close enough to the sign, you can make out the Cyrillic letters “вул (vul)”, the Belarusian name for “street”.

Most Helpful:

Belarus uses a Trekker for all of their coverage They have extremely limited coverage as show above.

Bollard:

While this isn’t really a bollard, its in most places that you have trekker coverage and can help you figure out its Belarus.

Road Lines:

The small coverage that crosses roads show a white divider lines and yellow towards the curb.

Road Signs:

The crosswalk sign is incredibly important here. The places that use 3 lines include Russian, Estonia, the Ukraine and Belarus.

License plates:

These are the license plates for Minsk (The only city that has coverage in Belarus). The Red one is from before 2004, but can still be seen on street view.

General look:

There are only a few places that have coverage, but they all kind of feel like this.
