Within Europe, Hungary and parts of Czechia have similar bleak wintery scenery. Bulgaria is one of the poorest countries in Europe and the Bulgarian roads reflect this fact. These roads are commonly crumbling and filled with cracks and holes. If I see a derelict road in Europe without other clues, my first guess is Bulgaria. Bulgaria also has many old-fashioned cars and an abundance of Dacia Sandero much like Romania and Spain. Bulgaria is a hilly country in some parts and depending on the time the imagery was taken, the trees may have green leaves. Large metal bins are also a common sight in Bulgaria as are shrunken down Eiffel Tower like objects. Bollards are a rare sight in Bulgaria. You will most likely see both Cyrillic and Latin on official signs however shops tend to have more Cyrillic writing. Recognising Bulgarian from Cyrillic letters is challenging as there are no Cyrillic letters unique to Bulgarian Cyrillic. In Bulgaria, the 3 digit roads feed in to the major 2 digit road. E.g. if you spot road 123 then you should look for the 12 road and the 123 should feed off it. It’s a common sight in Bulgaria to see trees without leaves lining the side of the road. Similar bleak, winter scenery is found in Hungary and parts of Czechia. Bulgaria tends to have more of this bleak scenery than these other two countries. Some parts of Bulgaria have rolling hills and trees with green leaves. Bulgarian roads are arguably the worst maintained in Europe. Most roads have many cracks and holes. These Eiffel Tower-like structures appear throughout Bulgaria. Bulgarian houses feature roofs that aren’t very steep. The roofs also tend to be the same shade of terracotta. Bulgarian houses are predominantly light coloured or have a brick exterior. The houses are often run-down. This style of old-fashioned car is a regular occurrence throughout Bulgaria. Dacia Sandero are a brand of popular Bulgarian cars. You will commonly see metal bins like these in Bulgaria. This style of bin is often seen in other parts of Eastern Europe but these bins seem to be most prevalent in Bulgaria. The Street View car’s aerial is typically visible in Bulgaria. Sometimes it will have tape on the end of it. Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Czechia may also have tape on the aerial. Bulgarian signs are written in Cyrillic and Latin. They will be blue and green in colour. Bulgaria predominantly uses Cyrillic. There are no distinguishing Cyrillic letters unique to Bulgarian Cyrillic. 

Most Helpful:

These metal dumpsters seem to be everywhere. They are similar to the Turkish ones, but these have a rounded top.

Bollard:

In comparison to other countries, it’s not very likely that you will see a bollard in Bulgaria.

In some parts bollards are replaced with these things that look like Manhole covers.

Unique Vehicle:

The taxis in Bulgaria all seem to be painted yellow. They also have a black and white checkered board pattern on the sides. Occasionally, there will be a company logo on the doors and hood.

Road Lines:

Most Bulgarian roads have just white stripes in the middle of the road.

Bulgaria can have dashes on the outside of the road. Note, they are thinner than Romanian dashes.

Due to the cold winters and the lack of maintenance a lot of roads have cracks and are in a poor condition.

In other situations there are no road lines available at all.

Alot of coverage in Bulgaria has been recorded during the winter.

Road Signs:

In Bulgaria they write in Cyrillic, however most road signs have the cities or street names mentioned in Latin as well.
Note that on highways the signs are in green, whereas along smaller roads they are in blue.

This is however not the case alongside smaller roads.

Electricity poles:

Within Bulgaria you can find a wide range of electricity poles. The most common have hook shaped insulators, similar to Latvian poles.

License plates:

If you are lucky enough to find an unblurred plate, the first few letters will tell you which region the vehicle is from.
Cars do travel, so finding a code may not be 100% accurate.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Considering its relatively small size, Bulgaria has a great variety of topographical features.
Bulgaria features notable diversity with the landscape ranging as follows.
Snow-capped peaks in Rila, Pirin and the Balkan Mountains

The mild and sunny Black Sea coast

The continental Danubian Plain in the north

The strong Mediterranean climatic influence in the Macedonian Valleys

The lowlands in the southernmost of Thrace

The lowest parts of the Upper Thracian Plain, along the Maritsa River

The Southern Bulgarian Black Sea Coast.

Bulgaria has substantial land in agriculture and forest.

Architecture:

Bulgaria is full with old Soviet/Communism style buildings.

Also, within Sofia you can find some modern, or refurbished flats.

Before:

In rural areas, almost every house has a red tiled roof. Walls are made either of plain red brick or a grey/brown colored stone.

