Bollards in Czechia have orange double reflectors on the front and a single white reflector on the back. There are also rarer blue and red variants.

The only other country with the same design is Slovakia.

Czechia and Slovakia both use a special kind of type B guardrail, which is wider than the normal type. No other European countries use the same kind.

While Slovakia occasionally uses other types of guardrails, Czechia is fairly consistent. For a good overview of European guardrails, see this infographic.

Czechia and Slovakia most commonly use wide, round concrete poles, which are quite often attached in pairs.

Czech and Slovak pole tops typically feature short metal bars that hold the insulators.

Two support bars holding up the metal bar on pole tops, resembling an upside down triangle, can sometimes be found in Czechia and Slovakia.

This is also found in Germany, Albania, Serbia and Romania.

It is common in both Czechia and Slovakia to see sign posts coated in red and white stripes.

Sign posts in Vienna and Innsbruck often have stickers coloured like the Austrian flag. However, while the colour scheme is similar, the size, position on the post and number of stripes will typically be noticeably different.

Czech and Slovak chevrons are white with red arrows.

Roofs with diamond shaped tiles are common in both Czechia and Slovakia.

This is also somewhat common in Hungary.

This can also be seen in Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria.

Step 1.2 - Different than Slovakia

Important note: The following information is not commonly shared with Slovakia. While there are occasional similarities, these tips are used to identify Czechia rather than Slovakia.

The Czech and Slovak languages might look quite similar for someone who does not speak either, however they both have some distinct letters:

Czech uses the letters Ř, Ě and Ů;

Slovak uses the letters Ľ, Ô, Ä, Ŕ and Ĺ.

The Czechian landscape is fairly rolling, with a lot of hills and altitude changes, but not a lot of tall mountains. Generally speaking, Slovakia has more mountains, but also more completely flat areas.

Czechia often has solid outer road lines, with no centre line.

This is also common in Germany.

Czechia uses blue directional signs, with large filled in white arrows.

Slovakia has small white arrows instead.

The borders of Czech road signs are almost always separated from the edge by a strip in the same colour as the sign background.

In Slovakia, it is more common for signs to have the border on the edge of the sign.

Czech highway signs can be either blue or green, and have a thin white border, which is separated from the edge by a second coloured border.

Slovakian highway signs have a white border right on the edge.

House numbers in Czechia are generally written on blue or red signs with thin white borders.

On the contrary, Slovakian house numbers are typically written on white signs with a thin red or black border.

The most common type of street sign in Czechia are these unique, bright red signs, which can either be wide and stuck on walls, or thin and attached to signs posts. Note that other street signs do occur in some areas, most notably in Brno. Similarly designed blue signs are also fairly common.

Furthermore, unlike most slavic countries, Czechia does not use the word “ulica” in street names.

Slovakia typically uses white street signs with a red border and blue text.

Czechian sign posts typically have thick, black caps.

While some European countries do have similar caps, Slovakia does not.

Czech pedestrian signs have five stripes.

The stripes on Slovakian pedestrian signs are a smaller scale. This is noticeable when comparing the outermost stripes to the edge of the triangle.

Czech road signs have a fairly thin font.

Slovakian signs normally have a much bolder font.

Czech kilometre markers have a yellow outline outside the black frame and do not have a black horizontal middle line.

Slovakian kilometre markers typically have a black horizontal middle line and do not have a yellow outline.

Suburban houses in Czechia are commonly connected in pairs.

This is less common in most neighbouring countries, including Slovakia.
Road Lines:

Czechia uses all white road lines. The middle divider can be either dashed or solid. The shoulders are also white.

Road Signs:

This sign indicates that you have the right of way. They can also be found in Norway.

This is a typical EU sign, it can be found throughout most of the EU.

These are town names. In Czechia, the arrow is very prominent. You don’t see the arrows in other countries.

This sign is when you enter a town.

This sign is when you leave a town.

Typical street name signs. Can be found in multiple colours, like red and green, too.

Electricity poles:

There are countless different varieties of poles throughout Czechia. This is the most common, and can also be found in Slovakia.

This is the second most common pole.

More common poles. Notice the speakers on the 2nd one which can be found often on poles in Czechia, and Slovakia too.

Characteristic street lights found in Czechia, which look like there are two on top of each other.

The thick bottom of poles which can be coloured in multiple colours, found in Slovakia too.

License plates:

You can find plates with or without the blue EU strip.

Prague Districts:

The city of Prague is separated into districts. They can be seen from the map, as well as the image above.

You can find out what district you are in from the street signs of Prague. The “Praha 1” indicates that you are in the first district of Prague. You can also find all of the neighborhood names listed as well.

Landscape:

You can see these nice rolling hills through most of the country.

Specific Trees:

You can find these fruit trees lining the roads of Czechia along most roads (besides highways) and in some parts of Slovakia.
It will mostly be the flatter parts of the countries.

Architecture:

This pattern of Brown and White can be found in Czechia. Its mostly found in Bohemia, but can be seen scattered across the country.

This is a typical Church in Czechia. You can find others like it.

General look:

Notice the bollards, the fruit trees, and the rolling hills. This is very typical of Czechia.
